# `.sspm` SS+ Map (Version 1)

The main map format used by Sound Space+.  
This format will be superseded by [SSPM v2](v2.md) once that format is finished and implemented.

## Header
- 4 bytes: File type signature, MUST be `0x53 53 2b 6d`.
- 2 bytes: SSPM version (16 bit uint). Always `1` for this SSPM version.
- 2 bytes: Reserved space. MUST be `0x00 00`.

## Metadata
- (variable): Map ID, as a newline-terminated UTF-8 string.
- (variable): Map name, as a newline-terminated UTF-8 string.
- (variable): Map creator, as a single newline-terminated UTF-8 string.
  - Groups of multiple mappers SHOULD be separated by `" & "` or `", "` (quotes not included).
- 4 bytes: Millisecond position of the last note (32 bit uint).
- 4 bytes: Number of notes in the map (32 bit uint).
- 1 byte: Map difficulty. MUST be one of the following values:
  - `0x00`: N/A
  - `0x01`: Easy
  - `0x02`: Medium
  - `0x03`: Hard
  - `0x04`: Logic
  - `0x05`: Tasukete 

## Cover
- 1 byte: Cover storage type. MUST be one of the following values:
  - `0x00`: No cover
  - `0x01`: (No longer in use)
  - `0x02`: PNG

- **IF storage type is `0x02` (PNG):**
  - 8 bytes: Length of data in bytes (64 bit uint).
  - (variable): PNG data buffer. MUST contain a full PNG image file.

## Audio
- 1 byte: Audio storage type. MUST be one of the following values:
  - `0x00`: No audio
  - `0x01`: Stored audio file
- **IF storage type is `0x01` (Stored audio file):**
  - 8 bytes: Length of data in bytes (64 bit uint).
  - (variable): Audio data buffer. SHOULD contain a full MP3 or OGG audio.

## Note data
- **For each note:**
  - 4 bytes: Millisecond position of the note (32 bit uint).
  - 1 byte: Note storage type. MUST be one of the following values:
    - `0x00`: Integer
    - `0x01`: Quantum (or negative)
  - **IF storage type is `0x00` (Integer):**
    - 1 byte: Note position X (8 bit uint), where 0 is the left grid column, 1 is the center column, and 2 is the right column. 
    - 1 byte: Note position Y (8 bit uint), where 0 is the top grid row, 1 is the center row, and 2 is the bottom row.
  - **IF storage type is `0x01` (Quantum):**
    - 4 bytes: Note position X (32 bit float), where 0 is the left grid column, 1 is the center column, and 2 is the right column.
    - 4 bytes: Note position Y (32 bit float), where 0 is the top grid row, 1 is the center row, and 2 is the bottom row.
