# `.sspm` SS+ Map (Version 2)

The main map format used by Sound Space+.  
This format superseded [SSPM v1](v1.md) in SS+ version `VERSION NUMBER GOES HERE`.

## File Layout
### Header
- 4 bytes: File type signature, **MUST** be `0x53 53 2b 6d`.
- 2 bytes: SSPM version (16 bit uint). **ALWAYS** `2` for this version.
- 4 bytes: Reserved space. **MUST** be `0x00 00 00 00`.

### Static Metadata
- 20 bytes: SHA1 hash of the marker and marker definition blocks. 
- 4 bytes: Millisecond position of the last marker (32 bit uint).
- 4 bytes: Number of **notes** on the map (32 bit uint).
- 4 bytes: Number of markers, *including notes*, on the map (32 bit uint).
- 1 byte: Map difficulty group. **MUST** be one of the following values:
  - `0x00`: N/A
  - `0x01`: Easy
  - `0x02`: Medium
  - `0x03`: Hard
  - `0x04`: Logic
  - `0x05`: Tasukete 
- 2 bytes: Map rating (16 bit uint).
- 1 byte: Does this map have audio? **MUST** be `0x00` or `0x01`.
- 1 byte: Does this map have a cover? **MUST** be `0x00` or `0x01`.
- 1 byte: Does this map require at least one mod? **MUST** be `0x00` or `0x01`.

### Pointers
- 8 bytes: Byte offset of the custom data block
- 8 bytes: Byte length of the custom data block
- 8 bytes: Byte offset of the audio block (0 if not present)
- 8 bytes: Byte length of the audio block (0 if not present)
- 8 bytes: Byte offset of the cover block (0 if not present)
- 8 bytes: Byte length of the cover block (0 if not present)
- 8 bytes: Byte offset of the marker definitions block
- 8 bytes: Byte length of the marker definitions block
- 8 bytes: Byte offset of the marker block
- 8 bytes: Byte length of the marker block

### Strings

**Note:** "uint16 length" means that the value's byte length is stored before the value as a 16 bit integer. (ex: `04 00 53 53 2b 6d`)

- uint16 length: Map ID (UTF-8 string)
- uint16 length: Map name (UTF-8 string)
- uint16 length: *Song* name (UTF-8 string)
- 2 bytes: Number of mappers in list (16 bit uint)
- **Repeated:**
  - uint16 length: Name of mapper (UTF-8 string)

### Custom Data
- 2 bytes: Number of fields (16 bit uint)
- **Repeated:**
  - uint16 length: ID of field as a UTF-8 string, must be unique
  - 1 byte: [Data type ID](#data-type-values)
  - (if data type is `0x0c`) 1 byte: Array data type
  - variable: Field data

### Audio (Only present if byte `0x2E` == `0x01`)
- variable: Audio data buffer, MUST contain an entire MP3 or OGG file

### Cover (Only present if byte `0x2F` == `0x01`)
- variable: Cover data buffer, MUST contain an entire PNG file (APNG is not supported)

### Marker Definitions
- 1 byte: Number of definitions (8 bit int)
- **Repeated:**
  - uint16 length: ID of definition as a UTF-8 string, must be unique (Notes are `ssp_note` and should always be the first definition)
  - **Repeated:**
    - 1 byte: [Data type ID](#data-type-values)
    - (if data type is `0x0c`) 1 byte: Array data type
  - 1 byte: Always `0x00`, indicates end of value list

### Markers
**Repeated:**
- 4 bytes: Millisecond position of the marker (32 bit uint)
- 1 byte: Marker type
- variable: Marker data, as defined in the marker definition


---

## Definitions
### Data type values
- *`ID`: length of value in bytes - description*

- `0x00`: N/A - Special value, indicates the end of a marker definition.

- `0x01`: 1 byte - 8 bit integer

- `0x02`: 2 bytes - 16 bit uint

- `0x03`: 4 bytes - 32 bit uint

- `0x04`: 8 bytes - 64 bit uint

- `0x05`: 4 bytes - 32 bit float

- `0x06`: 8 bytes - 64 bit float

- `0x07`: variable - Special type for positions, inserted into marker data as 2 separate values (`[x, y]`)
  - 1 byte: `0x00` for positive integers / `0x01` for quantum/negative (float)
  - **IF `0x00` (int):**
    - 1 byte: Position X (8 bit uint), where 0 is the left grid column, 1 is the center column, and 2 is the right column. 
    - 1 byte: Position Y (8 bit uint), where 0 is the top grid row, 1 is the center row, and 2 is the bottom row.
  - **IF `0x01` (quantum):**
    - 4 bytes: Position X (32 bit float), where 0 is the left grid column, 1 is the center column, and 2 is the right column.
    - 4 bytes: Position Y (32 bit float), where 0 is the top grid row, 1 is the center row, and 2 is the bottom row.

- `0x08`: variable - Buffer
  - 2 bytes: Buffer length in bytes (16 bit uint)
  - variable: Buffer data

- `0x09`: variable - String (same definition as `0x08`, but loaded as a UTF-8 string intead of a raw buffer)
  - 2 bytes: Buffer length in bytes (16 bit uint)
  - variable: UTF-8 data

- `0x0a`: variable - Long buffer
  - 4 bytes: Buffer length in bytes (32 bit uint)
  - variable: Buffer data

- `0x0b`: variable - String (same definition as `0x0a`, but loaded as a UTF-8 string intead of a raw buffer)
  - 4 bytes: Buffer length in bytes (32 bit uint)
  - variable: UTF-8 data

- `0x0c`: variable - Array of values, using the next byte in the definition as the type
  - 4 bytes: Total byte length of the value, excluding these 8 bytes (32 bit uint)
  - 2 bytes: Length of the array (16 bit uint)
  - variable: **EXACTLY** n values of the specified type
